When night fell, Bilbo just finished preparing his dinner.
Just when he reached for his fork, the doorbell rang.
Asking himself who could disturb him at this hour, he raised from his chair with slight propensity of irritation and decided to answer his door.

As he opened the door, he saw a band of 12 dwarfs standing side by side,
shouting; ‘at your service!’ synchronously while Gandalf quietly stood behind them.
‘At yours’ – Bilbo replied carefully before the horde walked into his residence.
As the dwarfs plundered his food supplies; eating from his plates with his knives, spoons, forks and glasses, while sitting on his chairs.
Aghast he stood and uttered no sound. Until loud knocking on the oaken door was heard, followed by complete silence.
‘He is here’ – Gandalf said. All gazed upon the door, and Gandalf decided to open it, and saw king Thorin Oakenshield, standing in the dark.
Thorin walked into the living room and sat down, all sat too.

Gandalf spoke;
‘Far to the east, over ranges and rivers beyond woodlands and wastelands, lies a single, solitary peak; The Lonely Mountain.’

One dwarf added:
“Ravens have been seen flying back to the mountain, as it was foretold.”
“When the birds of yore return to Erebor, the reign of the beast will end.”

“What beast?”, Bilbo asked.
“That would be a reference to Smaug the terrible, with teeth like spears and claws like swords, breathing fire that melts skin off bones.” – Another dwarf added.

Upon hearing these words Bilbo had quite enough 
If we have read these signs, do you not think other will have read them too?
Rumors have begun to spread. The dragon Smaug has not been seen for sixty years,
Eyes look east to the mountain assessing, wondering, weighing the risk.
Perhaps the vast wealth of our people now lies unprotected.
Do we sit back while others claim what is rightfully ours, or do we seize this change and take back Erebor?!
-Thorin said to motivate his company.

‘But we will need someone which scent is unknown to the dragon’, Gandalf said.
All eyes turned to Biblo, and Thorin handed him the contract. ‘You must be mistaken, I am a Hobbit, no burglar, I haven’t stolen anything in my life’ he said.

He left his visitors and went to his room, not to be seen for that night.

After disappointment clearly struck the company of dwarfs, they all sat gazing into the fireplace. Out of melancholy they sung their gloomy hymn;

"Far over the misty mountains cold
To dungeons deep and caverns old
We must away ere break of day
To find our long-forgotten gold
The pines were roaring on the height
The winds were moaning in the night
The fire was red, it flaming spread
The trees like torches blazed with light"

As Bilbo lied in bed and heard the hymn, in deep sleep he fell.

